# HTTP Proxy
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol or (HTTP) is the protocol used for communication on this web. That is, it is the protocol which defines how your web browser requests resources from a web server and how the server responds.

HTTP Proxies
Ordinarily, HTTP is a client-server protocol. The client (usually your web browser) communicates directly with the server (the web server software). However, in some circumstances it may be useful to introduce an intermediate entity called a proxy. Conceptually, the proxy sits between the client and the server. In the simplest case, instead of sending requests directly to the server the client sends all its requests to the proxy. The proxy then opens a connection to the server, and passes on the client's request. The proxy receives the reply from the server, and then sends that reply back to the client. Notice that the proxy is essentially acting like both a HTTP client (to the remote server) and a HTTP server (to the initial client).

# Why use a proxy? There are a few possible reasons:

Performance: By saving a copy of the pages that it fetches, a proxy can reduce the need to create connections to remote servers. This can reduce the overall delay involved in retrieving a page, particularly if a server is remote or under heavy load.
Content Filtering and Transformation: While in the simplest case the proxy merely fetches a resource without inspecting it, there is nothing that says that a proxy is limited to blindly fetching and serving files. The proxy can inspect the requested URL and selectively block access to certain domains, reformat web pages (for instances, by stripping out images to make a page easier to display on a handheld or other limited-resource client), or perform other transformations and filtering.
Privacy: Normally, web servers log all incoming requests for resources. This information typically includes at least the IP address of the client, the browser or other client program that they are using (called the User-Agent), the date and time, and the requested file. If a client does not wish to have this personally identifiable information recorded, routing HTTP requests through a proxy is one solution. All requests coming from clients using the same proxy appear to come from the IP address and User-Agent of the proxy itself, rather than the individual clients. If a number of clients use the same proxy (say, an entire business or university), it becomes much harder to link a particular HTTP transaction to a single computer or individual.